ADVANTAGES & CHALLENGES

Advantages of Lie Detector:
1.	For the criminals it is very easy to fool the law and the security forces by telling lies and easily dodging them, and so in order to confess the truth, these agencies use lie detector machines.
2.	A polygraph test can help in numerous situations to help uncover the truth. They are incredibly useful and accurate, with an average success rate of 90% or higher. There is no pain associated with the test and they are both affordable and accessible.
3.	Polygraph tests have great significance as they have several useful practical applications. They are valuable instruments used to detect truthfulness and deceitful behavior in several fields.
4.	Legacy system with long history of use in law enforcement and military applications; its use has been challenged in court, but in some cases, polygraph testimony has been allowed.
5.	Use has been challenged in court, but in some cases, polygraph testimony has been allowed.
6.	The polygraph process is well-known due to exposure in the media/popular culture.




Disadvantages of Lie Detector :
1.	If the person lies but doesn’t have the stress symptoms of telling that lie, they will pass the test. Similarly, innocent people may fail the test due to being anxious about taking it to begin with and therefore emitting elevated heart, respiratory, and blood pressure rates that can be detected.
2.	The polygraph is still vulnerable to both physical and psychological countermeasures and it also suffers from a significant error rate based upon inconclusive, false positives, or false negatives results. Manipulation sometimes plays a major role in escaping these cases.
3.	Although polygraph tests have certain useful practical applications, there are several challenges. Accuracy and ethics issues are more frequently raised challenges to polygraph tests. 
4.	Subject to countermeasures, false positives, false negatives, and inconclusive results.
5.	Accuracy rates can vary from 50 percent to 87.5 percent.
6.	The examination is lengthy and requires a subject to remain still while hooked up to numerous sensors.

